CSS: justify-content maintenance updates (#34502)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/justify-content/index.md

{{CSSRef}}

> The [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) **`justify-content`** property defines how the browser distributes space between and around content items along the {{Glossary("main axis")}} of a flex container and the [inline axis](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Logical_properties#inline_direction) of multicol and grid containers.

Author: multicol is multi-column layout

> The [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) **`justify-content`** property defines how the browser distributes space between and around content items along the {{Glossary("main axis")}} of a flex container and the [inline axis](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Logical_properties#inline_direction) of multicol and grid containers.

Author: ```suggestion
The [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) **`justify-content`** property defines how the browser distributes space between and around content items along the {{Glossary("main axis")}} of a flex container and the [inline axis](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Logical_properties#inline_direction) of grid and multicol containers.
```

    > **Note:** For [flexboxes](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Basic_concepts_of_flexbox), the `stretch` value behaves as `flex-start` or `start`. This is because, in flexboxes, stretching is controlled using the {{CSSXref("flex-grow")}} property.

- `safe`

  - : If the item overflows the alignment container, then the item is aligned as if the alignment mode is `start`. The desired alignment will not be implemented.

- `unsafe`

  - : Even if the item overflows the alignment container, the desired alignment will be implemented. Unlike `safe`, which will ignore the desired alignment in favor of preventing overflow.

## Description

Defined in the [CSS box alignment](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_box_alignment) module, `justify-content` applies to multicol containers, flex containers, and grid containers. The property does not apply to and has no effect on block containers.

> This property shares many keyword value with the {{cssxref("align content")}} property, but not all! The `justify-content` isn't involved in baseline alignment, and therefore does not take baseline values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This property shares many keyword values with the {{cssxref("align-content")}} property, but not all! The `justify-content` isn't involved in baseline alignment, and therefore does not take baseline values.
```

> In [flex layouts](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout), the property defines how positive free space in each flex line is distributed between or around flex items, along the main axis. This property impacts the elements in a line, not between lines. The alignment is done after the lengths and auto margins are applied, which means that when one or more flex items in a line have a {{cssxref("flex-grow")}} factor greater than `0` the property has no effect on flex lines as that line has no available space to distribute. Also, as stretching in the main axis is controlled by {{cssxref("flex")}}, the `stretch` value behaves as `flex-start`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In [flex layouts](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout), the property defines how positive free space is distributed between or around flex items along the main axis. This property impacts the space between elements in a line, not the space between lines. The alignment is done after the lengths and auto margins are applied, which means that when one or more flex items in a line have a {{cssxref("flex-grow")}} factor greater than `0`, the property has no effect as there is no space to distribute along that line. Also, as stretching along the main axis is controlled by {{cssxref("flex")}}, the `stretch` value behaves as `flex-start`.
```

With [grid layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout), this property distributes available space between or around grid columns, not grid items. If the grid container is larger than the grid itself, the `justify-content` property can be used to justify the grid along the inline axis, aligning the grid columns.

> Grid `auto` track sizes (and only `auto` track sizes) can be stretched by the `align-content` and `justify-content` properties. Therefore by default, an `auto` sized track will take up any remaining space in the grid container. As the grid's inline size has to be less than the grid container's inline size for there to be space to distribute, in this case the property has no effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grid `auto` track sizes (and only `auto` track sizes) can be stretched by the `align-content` and `justify-content` properties. Therefore by default, an `auto` sized track will take up any remaining space in the grid container. As the grid's inline size has to be less than the grid container's inline size for there to be space to distribute, the property has no effect in this case.
```

> ## Examples

Reviewer: Can we demo the `safe center` and `unsafe center` values? the BCD says it has been implemented in Firefox.
If no then can we add a note in the value section?

Author: added to the interactive example below.

  justify-content: space-evenly;
}

div {
  background-color: pink;
  width: 80px;
}

div:nth-of-type(n + 9) {
  width: 35px;
  background-color: lightgreen;
}

div:nth-last-of-type(3) {
  width: 250px;
  background-color: lightblue;
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Basic grid example", "100%", 220)}}

Note that `justify-contents` aligns the columns and has no effect on the items or alignment in grid areas. Grid items, even those that overflow their grid cell, do not impact column justification.

### The safe keyword

This example demonstrates the `safe` keyterm. Four centered flex items are not allowed to wrap, overflow their single flex-line container. By adding `safe` to `center` in the `justify-content` property, overflowing content behaves as if the alignment mode is `start`

```html hidden
<p><code>justify-content: center;</code></p>
<section class="container safe">
  <div>A</div>
  <div>B</div>
  <div>C</div>
  <div>D</div>
</section>
<p><code>justify-content: safe center;</code></p>
<section class="container safe-center">
  <div>A</div>
  <div>B</div>
  <div>C</div>
  <div>D</div>
</section>
<p><code>justify-content: safe center;</code> with 3 items</p>

> <section class="container">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<section class="container safe-center">
```

  <div>A</div>
  <div>B</div>
  <div>C</div>
</section>
```

```css hidden
.container {
  margin: 5px auto;
  border: 1px dashed;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  background-color: lightblue;
}

div {
  line-height: 1em;
  border: 1px solid;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  text-align: center;
  background-color: pink;
}
```

The container is set to `center`, with every container other than the first having the `safe` keyword added:

```css
.container {

>   justify-content: center;
>   align-items: baseline;
>   display: flex;
>   width: 350px;
>   height: 2em;
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  align-items: baseline;
  display: flex;
  width: 350px;
  height: 2em;
}

.safe {
  justify-content: center;
}
```

.container ~ .container {
  justify-content: safe center;
}

div {
  flex: 0 0 100px;
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("the safe keyword", "100%", 260)}}

> As an item overflows the alignment container, with `safe` included, the alignment mode is `start` and the `space-around` alignment is not implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an item overflows the alignment container, with `safe` included, the alignment mode is `start` and the `center` alignment is not implemented. The `safe` keyterm has no effect if the items do not overflow the container.
```

## Examples

### Basic grid example

In this example, we have a grid that is narrower than its grid container, and we use `justify-content` to distribute the available space evenly around and between the grid columns.

#### HTML

> The {{htmlelement("section")}} container, our to-be grid container, has 16 nested {{htmlelement("div")}} to-be flex item elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {{htmlelement("section")}} container, our grid container to-be, has 16 nested {{htmlelement("div")}}s that will become grid items.
```

```html
<section class="container">
  <div>A</div>
  <div>B</div>
  <div>C</div>
  <div>D</div>
  <div>E</div>
  <div>F</div>
  <div>G</div>
  <div>H</div>
  <div>I</div>
  <div>J</div>
  <div>K</div>
  <div>L</div>
  <div>M</div>
  <div>N</div>
  <div>O</div>
  <div>P</div>
</section>
```

#### CSS

```css hidden
.container {
  margin: 5px;
  border: 1px solid;
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

div {
  line-height: 2em;
  border: 1px solid;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  text-align: center;
}
```

> We set the width of the container to `500px` but only have three columns that are each `80px` wide, meaning there is `260px` of available space to distribute between or around the grid columns. We set `justify-content: space-evenly`, which means there will be `65px` of space before, between, and after each column.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We set the container width to `500px` and specify three columns, each `80px` wide, meaning there is `260px` of available space to distribute between or around them. We then set `justify-content: space-evenly`, which means there will be `65px` of space before, between, and after each column.
```

We set different widths (and background colors) to demonstrate how the justification is applied to the columns.

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid: auto-flow / repeat(3, 80px);
  width: 500px;
  justify-content: space-evenly;
}

div {
  background-color: pink;
  width: 80px;
}

div:nth-of-type(n + 9) {
  width: 35px;
  background-color: lightgreen;
}

div:nth-last-of-type(3) {
  width: 250px;
  background-color: lightblue;
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Basic grid example", "100%", 220)}}

Note that `justify-contents` aligns the columns and has no effect on the items or alignment in grid areas. Grid items, even those that overflow their grid cell, do not impact column justification.

> ### The safe keyword

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### The safe keyterm
```

> This example demonstrates the `safe` keyterm. Four centered flex items are not allowed to wrap, overflow their single flex-line container. By adding `safe` to `center` in the `justify-content` property, overflowing content behaves as if the alignment mode is `start`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates the `safe` keyterm. We specify four centered flex items that are not allowed to wrap, and as a result, overflow their single flex-line container. By adding `safe` to `center` in the `justify-content` property, overflowing content behaves as if the alignment mode is `start`
```

```html hidden
<p><code>justify-content: center;</code></p>
<section class="container safe">
  <div>A</div>
  <div>B</div>
  <div>C</div>
  <div>D</div>
</section>
<p><code>justify-content: safe center;</code></p>
<section class="container safe-center">
  <div>A</div>
  <div>B</div>
  <div>C</div>
  <div>D</div>
</section>
<p><code>justify-content: safe center;</code> with 3 items</p>
<section class="container safe-center">
  <div>A</div>
  <div>B</div>
  <div>C</div>
</section>
```

```css hidden
.container {
  margin: 5px auto;
  border: 1px dashed;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  background-color: lightblue;
}

div {
  line-height: 1em;
  border: 1px solid;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  text-align: center;
  background-color: pink;
}
```

The container is set to `center`, with every container other than the first having the `safe` keyword added:

```css
.container {
  align-items: baseline;
  display: flex;
  width: 350px;
  height: 2em;
}

.safe {
  justify-content: center;
}

.safe-center {
  justify-content: safe center;
}

div {
  flex: 0 0 100px;
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("the safe keyword", "100%", 260)}}

> As an item overflows the alignment container, with `safe` included, the alignment mode is `start` and the `center` alignment is not implemented. The `safe` keyterm has no effect if the items do not overflow the container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an item overflows the alignment container, with `safe` included the alignment mode behaves as `start` and the `center` alignment is not implemented. The `safe` keyterm has no effect if the items do not overflow the container.
```

  box-sizing: border-box;
}

div {
  line-height: 2em;
  border: 1px solid;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  text-align: center;
}
```

We set the width of the container to `500px` but only have three columns that are each `80px` wide, meaning there is `260px` of available space to distribute between or around the grid columns. We set `justify-content: space-evenly`, which means there will be `65px` of space before, between, and after each column.

We set different widths (and background colors) to demonstrate how the justification is applied to the columns.

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid: auto-flow / repeat(3, 80px);
  width: 500px;
  justify-content: space-evenly;
}

div {
  background-color: pink;
  width: 80px;
}

div:nth-of-type(n + 9) {
  width: 35px;
  background-color: lightgreen;
}

div:nth-last-of-type(3) {
  width: 250px;
  background-color: lightblue;
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Basic grid example", "100%", 220)}}

Note that `justify-contents` aligns the columns and has no effect on the items or alignment in grid areas. Grid items, even those that overflow their grid cell, do not impact column justification.

### The safe keyword

> This example demonstrates the `safe` keyterm. The HTML and CSS is the same as in the above example, except for the `justify-content` values:

Reviewer: We can't use the same example for `safe` and `unsafe`. Safe and unsafe require item overflow.
We could use this demo: https://jsfiddle.net/51af3k9m/2/

  <div>D</div>
  <div>E</div>
  <div>F</div>
  <div>G</div>
  <div>H</div>
  <div>I</div>
  <div>J</div>
  <div>K</div>
  <div>L</div>
  <div>M</div>
  <div>N</div>
  <div>O</div>
  <div>P</div>
</section>
<p><code>justify-content: safe space-around;</code></p>
<section class="container">
  <div>A</div>
  <div>B</div>
  <div>C</div>
  <div>D</div>
  <div>E</div>
  <div>F</div>
  <div>G</div>
  <div>H</div>
  <div>I</div>
  <div>J</div>
  <div>K</div>
  <div>L</div>
  <div>M</div>
  <div>N</div>
  <div>O</div>
  <div>P</div>
</section>
```

```css hidden
.container {
  margin: 5px;
  border: 1px solid;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  display: grid;
  grid: auto-flow / repeat(3, 80px);
  width: 500px;
}

div {
  line-height: 2em;
  border: 1px solid;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  text-align: center;
  background-color: pink;
  width: 80px;
}

div:nth-of-type(n + 9) {
  width: 35px;
  background-color: lightgreen;
}

div:nth-last-of-type(3) {
  width: 250px;
  background-color: lightblue;
}
```

The first container is set to `space-around`, the second is too, but with the `safe` keyword added:

```css
.container:first-of-type {
  justify-content: space-around;
}

.container:last-of-type {

>   justify-content: safe space-around;

Reviewer: This is a wrong value. From the syntax `<overflow-position>? [ <content-position> | left | right ]` only `safe (center|start|end|flex-start|flex-end|left|right)` values are valid.

Author: redid the example completely

}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("the safe keyword", "100%", 360)}}

As an item overflows the alignment container, with `safe` included, the alignment mode is `start` and the `space-around` alignment is not implemented.

### Visualizing flex item distribution

This example includes a multi-line wrapping flex layout. The second flex item has a positive flex growth factor, consuming all the available free space in the first flex line.

#### CSS

```css hidden
container {
  margin: 5px;
}

div {
  line-height: 2em;
  border: 1px solid;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  text-align: center;
}
```

```css
#container {
  display: flex;
  flex-flow: row wrap;
  justify-content: space-between; /* Can be changed in the live sample */

>   width: 510px;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  width: 510px;
  border: 2px dashed black;
  margin: 1rem;
```
The border will be more helpful in understanding space-around.

Author: added

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Visualizing_flex_item_distribution", "100%", 180)}}

> Select different keywords from the drop down menu to visualize the different `justify-content` keyword values. Because an item on the first line can grow, there is no available space for the `justify-content` property to distribute on that line only. With `space-between`, the first item on each line is flush with the main-start edge, and the last item is flush with the main-end edge; this means if a line has only one item, it will be at the main-start edge (as seen in the last line). This is not the case for other values, such as `space-evenly` and `space-around`, which centers one-item flex-lines.

Author: ```suggestion
Select different keywords from the drop down menu to visualize the different `justify-content` keyword values. Because an item on the first line can grow, there is no available space for the `justify-content` property to distribute on that line only. With the `space-between` value, the first item on each line is flush with the main-start edge, and the last item is flush with the main-end edge; this means if a line has only one item, it will be at the main-start edge (as seen in the last line). This is not the case for other values, such as `space-evenly` and `space-around`, which centers one-item flex-lines.
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Visualizing_flex_item_distribution", "100%", 180)}}

> Select different keywords from the drop down menu to visualize the different `justify-content` keyword values. Because an item on the first line can grow, there is no available space for the `justify-content` property to distribute on that line only. With the `space-between` value, the first item on each line is flush with the main-start edge, and the last item is flush with the main-end edge; this means if a line has only one item, it will be at the main-start edge (as seen in the last line). This is not the case for other values, such as `space-evenly` and `space-around`, which centers one-item flex-lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select different keywords from the drop-down menu to visualize the different `justify-content` keyword values. Because an item on the first line can grow, there is no available space for the `justify-content` property to distribute on that line only. With the `space-between` value, the first item on each line is flush with the main-start edge, and the last item is flush with the main-end edge; this means if a line has only one item, it will be at the main-start edge (as seen in the last line). This is not the case for other `space-*` values, such as `space-evenly` and `space-around`, which centers one-item flex-lines.
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Visualizing_flex_item_distribution", "100%", 180)}}

> Select different keywords from the drop-down menu to visualize the different `justify-content` keyword values. Because an item on the first line can grow, there is no available space for the `justify-content` property to distribute on that line only. With the `space-between` value, the first item on each line is flush with the main-start edge, and the last item is flush with the main-end edge; this means if a line has only one item, it will be at the main-start edge (as seen in the last line). This is not the case for other `space-*` values, such as `space-evenly` and `space-around`, which centers one-item flex-lines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select different keywords from the drop-down menu to visualize the different `justify-content` keyword values. Because an item on the first line can grow, there is no available space on that line for the `justify-content` property to distribute. With the `space-between` value, the first item on each line is flush with the main-start edge, and the last item is flush with the main-end edge. As a result, if a line has only one item, it will be aligned with the main-start edge (as seen in the last line). This is not the case for other `space-*` values, such as `space-evenly` and `space-around`, which center one-item flex-lines.
```
